University of Sri Jayewardenepura

M.Sc. in Computer Science

First Semester Course Unit Examination — August 2023
CSC 543 2.0 Data Communication and Networking

Time: Two (02) Hours
This paper consists of 4 questions on 3 pages. Answer all questions.

Question 01.

(A total of 25 marks)

(a) Assume that you are watching a movie stored in a server in America using your mobile

phone. With regard to data communication and networking, answer the following
questions.

(i)

Drawa sketch of a possible network diagram and name four possible network
types.

.

(ii) Name three possible data communication mediums involved in the above
scenario and explain a strength and a weakness of each.

(iii) Name three networking protocols involved in the above scenario and explain
their responsibilities in brief.

[09 Marks]

(b)

Why do we have layered the networking functionalities? Name three layers of TCP/IP
five-layer model and explain their role in brief.
[09 Marks]

(c) In different networking layers, different terms are being used to refer to the data being
transport. Name the terms that are being used in TCP/IP five-layer model. Moreover,

what do you mean by encapsulation and decapsulation in networking? Why do we have
encapsulation and decapsulation in networking devices such as switches and routers.

[07 Marks]

Page 1 of 3

Question 02.

(A total of25 marks)

(a) If two nodes with different communication speeds and finite buffers need to have

a
reliable and efficient communication over a noisy channel, answer the following
questions. You may use diagrams where necess
ary.
(i) Identify two possible issues that can occur due to the noises
in the
communication channel.

(ii) Explain how you can solve the above (i) issues.
(iii) The above (ii) simplest solution can slow down the

communication speed.

Hence, suggest a mechanism to make it more efficien

t while guaranteeing a

solution to the original problem.

[08 Marks]

(b)

If the traffic of a communication channel change

s dynamically, how can the data

sending node know traffic and adjust its sendin

g speed accordingly?

.
(c)

[04 Marks]

Name and briefly explain three channelizing metho

ds that can be used to share a

communication channel among multip

le nodes.

,
[06

(d) Consider the following codeword 1011011. If

the Hamming (7,4) with even parity has

been used, answer the following questions.
(i)

Marks]

Is the codeword correct? Justify your answer.

(ii) If the answer for the (i) is no,
a)

How many errors are there?

b)

Can you correct them? Justify your answer.
[07 Marks]

Question 03.

(4 total of 25 marks)

(a) When a user types “http://www.graduate.sjp.ac.

Ik/” in the address bar ofa web browser,
browser is able to contact the right webserver and
retrieve the relevant content from it.

By showing all the major steps, clearly explain

on the internet to retrieve the content.

how a web browser finds the right server

[12 Marks]

(b) If three live websites have been opened in three

tabs of a browser, explain how the right

content goes to the right tab. Moreover, if multip

same online shopping site, how can the server

le users are concurrently accessing the

send right content to the right user?

[13 Marks]

Page 2 of 3

Question 04. (A total of 25 marks)

(a) Using a suitable single source shortest path routing algorithm, find the final routing
table of node A of the following network diagram. All the intermediate steps need to
be shown clearly.

[13 Marks]

‘

(b) Assume that a university has four faculties namely Science, Engineering, Medical,
and Commers. The number of computers in each faculty is about 700, 450, 250, and

1000 respectively. Moreover, the Science faculty has three departments with
computer laboratories namely Computer Science, Mathematics, and Statistics. There
are about 300, 125, and 118 computers in those departments respectively. If one of
the computers in university has the 19.163.182.146/20 IP address, answer the
following questions. You may assume that the subnetworks have ordered

(descending) according to the number of computers in each and only the minimum

required number of IP addresses need to be given for each faculty and department
(Whatever left need to be preserved for future use).

(i)

What is the subnet mask of the Medical faculty?

(ii) What is the network address of the subnet that the above IP address is belong
to?

(iii) What is the last usable IP address of the above (ii) subnet?
[12 Marks]

* * * * END OF PAPER *

* * *

Page 3 of 3

